- [Instructor] We'll start our journey of async messaging
by creating a consumer and getting Rabbit up and running.
So the first thing we need to do
is get Rabbit up and running.
And in the bin directory,
once again, I have set a startup script that you can use.
So let's do this start_rabbit.
Again, this applies to bash-based systems.
So now that Rabbit's up and running, let's go to our IDE.
Let's open up the pom file and our room cleaner app,
and let's add a dependency,
and this one is going to be spring-boot-starter-amqp.
That comes from org.springframework.
We will import that.
Now let's go to src, main, java,
and our base package, and let's create a new package,
and we will simply call this async.
Now, in that package, let's create a new Java class.
This one is going to be called AsyncPayload.
It's going to have two attributes, so an id
and a model.
Let's put getters and setters on there.
Excellent.
Now let's create another Java class.
This one, we will call RoomCleanerListener.
Let's annotate this one with @Component.
We're going to put a private_static Logger
using the LoggerFactory.getLogger.
We're also going to bring a couple values in
from the application context.
So we need to get an ObjectMapper,
and we need to get a handle to our RoomService.
Import to ObjectMapper.
Let's build a constructor that takes both of those in.
Okay, we're going to create one method on this class.
We're going to call it receiveMessage.
It is going to take a string version of the message.
And we'll wrap this with a try-catch block,
take our AsyncPayload.
We'll get the mapper and read a value.
So this is expecting that our string message
is in JSON format using the AsyncPayload as a model.
Now, this will complain because of a JSON parse exception,
so we will simply catch a JsonProcessingException,
and for now, we'll just printStackTrace.
Let's come back up here under the try block.
The first thing I want to do
is I want to make sure that this message is for us.
So if ROOM.equals
payload.getModel,
so if it's a ROOM type, then we would do some work.
And the work that we're going to do
is we're going to get a handle to our Room itself,
so we're going to use the roomService,
and we want to getById
payload.getId,
and finish that up.
Now, you notice that we haven't implemented this method yet,
and that's fine.
Go ahead and jump over into that class by creating a method.
All we need to do here
is return roomRepository.findById
and pass it our id.
Now, you look here. This is an optional value.
Now, because it's optional,
all I'm going to do is do a get on it.
Technically, I should check that,
but for the purposes of this, we'll be fine.
So let's jump back to our listener.
We still need to import a room, so let's do that.
And now we're simply going to do a log statement here.
So ROOM
needs to be cleaned,
and we need to pass it
room.getNumber,
room.getName.
And we'll go ahead and put an else in here,
and we will log a warning message.
All right, that's up and running.
So now we need to build a config.
So let's go back up into our config folders.
Let's create a new class,
and we will simply call this one AsyncConfig,
annotate with @Configuration,
and we've got a few things to do here.
So, first of all,
set our QUEUE_NAME
equal to room-cleaner
and our EXCHANGE_NAME
equal to operations.
Now let's define some beans.
The first bean that we're going to define is of type Queue,
and you want to get it from amqp core.
And we will simply return a new Queue
with a QUEUE_NAME and false.
Now let's do another bean.
This one is going to be a TopicExchange.
And this time, we'll return a new TopicExchange
using our EXCHANGE_NAME.
Put those parentheses in there that I forgot.
Now we're going to create a binding bean.
We will send in our Queue
and our TopicExchange.
And we will return a BindingBuilder.bind the queue
to the exchange
with a routing key of landon.rooms.cleaner.
Go ahead and import that in.
Couple more beans to go.
I'm going to create a MessageListenerAdapter,
and we will pass this a RoomCleanerListener.
And we pass it the method that we wanted to call,
which we named receiveMessage.
Now, for our final bean here,
I'm going to reduce the side trace.
We have a little bit more real estate.
We're going to create a SimpleMessageListenerContainer
called container,
and that is going to take a ConnectionFactory
from Rabbit itself,
and it is going to take our MessageListenerAdapter.
Now, in here, we need to create
a SimpleMessageListenerContainer.
And then we need to take that container
and set the Connection Factory
equal to our ConnectionFactory,
and we need to set the Queue Name
equal to our QUEUE_NAME text,
and then we need to set the Message Listener
to the listenerAdapter,
and then we will return our container.
Now, the next we do, we're actually going to use this.
This was just to get everything set up on the listener side.
You can test this however.
If you want to start your app,
you can go in and create a message
by going to the Rabbit host.
Let's go ahead and do that real quick.
Let me start up this application.
Make sure everything starts up.
Let's go to a web browser.
In the web browser, let's go to localhost:15672.
You'll see it represented with a RabbitMQ dashboard.
Type in guest and guest.
Go to Queues,
and you'll see that the queue is already registered
'cause we got a listener running,
so let's go into that.
We can publish a message.
We want to set content other type
equal to text/plain.
And then the payload to the message we want to do,
it's got to be in JSON.
So we'll set the id equal to 25
and the model
equal to ROOM,
close up that curly brace,
and now I can publish the message on the queue,
and it tells me that.
Let's go back to our running application,
and you'll see in the Console up here,
the last line says that it needs to be cleaned.
So what we've done is we put a message on a queue.
It's been received,
so we know we've got the listener up and running,
now let's go create the producer.